Comment: It's a nice start.

They need to introduce random checks to insure that money is still in the account and being used by the student after they are accepted into Canada to study as well.
Comment: Now time to crack down on these Dollarama colleges that are selling business courses you can take on udemy for $20. 

Blows my mind how these crap courses can make anyone be eligible for a visa to move here. There needs to be a certification process these programs are measured on. 

Also, shouldn't these 'agents' be pushing these students to take trades or healthcare / nursing instead of basket weaving marketing or AI crypto web3 climate change MBA.
Comment: So the organizations these students use to spoof the funds in their accounts are going to have to spoof a slightly different number?

We did it everyone.. we solved the problem
Comment: It is. Praying for them to raise it to 55k though.
Comment: CBC article on it,

[https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/liberals-double-income-requirement-foreign-students-1.7052387](https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/liberals-double-income-requirement-foreign-students-1.7052387)
Comment: It's a nice start. Too bad it's half what it should be.
Comment: Still think for someone who is targeting a backdoor entry to Canada an extra 10k won't be a major issue. The announcement about not ending the unlimited work hours until April/May 2024 also means the govt has caved into student and corporate pressure. It's a start alright but I am afraid we might need more stringent measures in place to prevent an unsustainable increase in foreign students
Comment: What about residence costs?
Comment: I think it should go a step further. I think the government should set up a bank to hold international student's money that they are supposed to show they have. Having that money monitored would help detect fraud, and also protect students and their families from fraudulent scams and also criminal activities, especially from criminal gangs, government or political groups from their home countries.  

If students have to suddenly remove large sums of their money that is meant for school it could trigger some oversight into what is happening.
Comment: 1 small step. Now they need to limit weekly labour hours back to pre pandemic levels and implement tough requirements on the diploma mill schools
Comment: The number needs to higher. 40-50k.
Comment: I don't know if this is going to do much honestly.

Many banks overseas will loan the money for this, or they use other loans. Potential international students will get the loan ahead of time, wait & have the money sit in their accounts for a while, buy the GIC, and payback the loan money when the GIC is allowed to be sold.
Comment: This only means a bigger loan to “show money”
Comment: Guy I went to school with was from Africa, spent all the money he was required to have to come here on a Tesla.
Comment: It should be higher
Comment: This is meaningless until the money has to be held in a Canadian financial institution. Many banks in South and Southeast Asia offer a service to show money in account to meet study abroad requirements.
Comment: That's only 1,267,395 Rupees
Comment: Isn’t it pretty easy to show money though. What people usually do is borrow money from friends and family, declare and show it then return it a few days later? My apologies I might be wrong but kinda confused.
Comment: So they need around 70k upfront. But I doubt they people have calculated that correctly and it’s still going to be a low ball number
Comment: So, cost of living in Canada is 20k a year, that's awesome...
Comment: Such as step of positive direction for a society. Much responsible decisions to be production of harmonious future time
Comment: It's a bit late to the party
Comment: This is a great news. Canadian study  permits have been hollowing up economies of provinces/countries these students come  from. Changing demographics of both canada and other countries. Hopefully it will put a rest to it .
Comment: That's only 3 months rent in Vancouver
Comment: $20k a year is still not enough to live in most cities in Canada
Comment: people will just have a relative lend them the money enough to 'prove' they have it then still come here poor. Other countries have similar requirements and that is a common workaround.
Comment: I doubt it will make much difference. It sounds like there's an "enterprise" where a student got a deposit of $10k into the bank, sent the proof then transferred the 10k to the next student and so on - none of them actually had the money but all used the same money to get their visa. The same thing will likely happen here just with a larger amount momentarily in the accounts.
Comment: A day late and a dollar short.
Comment: So instead of showing fake statements for 10k, they just need to show fake statements for 20k.
Comment: If they already fake it now, they will continue to fake it. This is for show only.
Comment: They act like a lot of people weren’t forging documents for the previous $10,000 that was required. It’ll just be more forged documents
Comment: Means literally nothing. They will pay someone a small fee to have this money temporarily in their bank account. I personally know many who did this
Comment: Im sure there is a loophole somewhere. There always is a loophole.
Comment: Requiring bank statement with transaction history during visa application can be another option, or simply a higher GIC.
Comment: There's no way to take the money out once it's deposited into a GIC. The bank controls it and deposits it into the student's account over 12 months.
Comment: AND reduce the allowable working hours back down to 20. Kill the pilot project for 40 hours.
Comment: If only. Most of these "students" barely speak enough English to work at a McDonalds, nevermind in a hospital where your patients' lives depend on your fluency in English.
Comment: I don’t know how can someone spoof GIC funds as that is locked and controlled by banks in Canada. Someone can only spoof the amount that they have in their own bank account and not in Canadian GIC account. The locked amount is then disbursed on monthly basis as per the amount set by bank. Get your facts checked
Comment: I don't think we should be restricting educational opportunities to only the rich elite. 55K CAD is a lot of money.

Nothing wrong with international students working to support themselves while studying as long as they're attending a legitimate academic institution.

EDIT:

What should not be happening is students coming here to study in name only while working 40 hours a week in low-wage service jobs and living in squalor.

The student visa system needs to stop being used as a secondary TFW program.
Comment: Not only did they extend that 40 hour work week for students, but they also want to then make it permanently increased to 30 hours after the temporary extension. This increase in funds required is pretty useless.
Comment: The $20k requirement would be more appropriate for the year 2004 than then year 2024.
Comment: That is how it is now. This rule is to put this amount in a gic and the bank deposits it to students checking account over 12 months. Students can't withdraw all money at once from the gic.
Comment: Not a lot, but students are the big issue.   


The big issue is them staying after, it's why they are studying at all. If you reduce that, then only REAL international students will come. Sadly when I was in school that was the minority of them, and usually only from European countries for a semester or two.
Comment: Money is held in a GIC at a Canadian bank for over 80% of the applications.
Comment: Wait really? Do you know of any banks which might do this? Because I think a student has to submit their GIC in a Canadian bank
Comment: Not really, they have to show that the money stayed in the account for a long period of time. Like they have to show proof of funds and bank statements. Its easy to guess if the money is being borrowed.
Comment: They do require that. At least, every genuine student I know provided one.
Comment: That is not how GICs work. If you take it out prior to the deadline, you don't receive the interest. They don't take your money and refuse to give it back.
Comment: From what I read this only applies for a mode within the immigration process. Seems to be for a fast-track mode or something?
Comment: [deleted]
Comment: If you're working 40 hours a week as an international student, you're a TFW, not a student. Let's stop pretending that "they're just working to support themselves because they were lied to about COL". A lot of the time they are willing participants just looking for a way in.
Comment: I had to show my whole tuition amount in my parents bank. It was around 60k. And all of the nation who do not qualify for sds has to show full tuition if I'm not wrong. I thought this was the norm until I talked to some indians and heard that they came here showing 10k gic.
Comment: I understand your point but 55k covers 1-2 years of housing + food
Comment: $20k + tuition per year is perfectly reasonable for a student. It isn't a lavish lifestyle, but it is doable without cramming in 2 to a hallway.
Comment: When was this implemented? I came in 2021 and just had to show funds. Or is it for certain countries
Comment: Scotiabank and CIBC do it as well as there's a foreign bank named ICICI which has some kind of partnership with RBC.
Comment: So they can't just temporarily borrow the money and keep it in the account to make it seem like they can meet the requirements?
Comment: There are also now rolling GICs where you can withdraw money pretty much anytime after a few months and still get the interest.  It is a lower rate than locked in GICs, but a ton more flexible.
Comment: These are not your usual GICs. Banks don't even pay any interest back. You only get back the initial $10K you deposited in 13 installments. Plus they charge you a $200 fee.
Comment: These are special GICs, money is essentially locked.
Comment: Totally agree with you. Nobody can pay university by just working full-time low wage. Its only the students studying diploma or in a community college. I don't get it they can barely get anything out with a diploma degree back in their home country or outside canada. But I assume its good business for colleges.
Comment: This is by design. A way to bring in more people and appease business with cheap workers.
Comment: Ya, a room rental may go for $700 in my city near the school outside of August rush (which reduces the point but w/e), add LEAN food of $250/MTH, cell $40. You have about $10K, and you need some other money so $10K extra is a solid ok living standard for students. I paid $450/mth back in 2012 in a Sault Ste Marie, so I'm actually thankful for the gov'ts rule $20k.  


The real issue is the amount allowed to stay after their studies, and who they bring with them. And a bit of universities prefering international over domestic students, that's a big problem.
Comment: You might have applied under the non-SDS category. Around 80% of the applications are under the SDS category for which earlier a $10K GIC was the requirement which is doubled.
Comment: ICICI is a good bank in India but not a good bank for GIC in Canada as one of my friend faced a-lot of issue when it came to get the GIC amount every month. He eventually ended up transferring his whole GIC in Scotia bank. I wouldn’t be surprised if people are using ICICI bank to show fake GIC funds. Idk how but I’m pretty sure my fellow Indians might’ve found a loophole
Comment: It’s not that easy. Money is supposed to be in your account for over 6 months. But a lot of this fraud needs to be stopped and visa officers should be more vigilant.
Comment: No, it gets locked in by Canadian account of their choosing and repayed in monthly installments of 700-1000 each month from the day they land here.
Comment: Guaranteeing this will always be hard because you never know what is happening on the other side of the world, but requiring transaction history or a higher GIC can at least make borrowing money to satisfy this requirement harder.
Comment: That was 2012 in non-major urban areas. Room rental may start at $900 in major urban areas nowadays.
Comment: Oh ok. Thanks for the information
Comment: I live in Waterloo, if you share a room, $900 is too much.  
You know dorms share a room often. I think that's an acceptable standard to demand students afford. That would be around $500\~ each, so $1K per room (premium cuz 2 people vs 1).  


No need to force a student to not share a room when that's been normal for so long.
Comment: I live in kitchener, glad you had a good time but I would not recommend living here unless you are here for education or have a fair amount of money, the city is very unsafe and expensive, people praise us for the LRT but like most of our public transit it in very unreliable and exploded in the street last winter
Comment: Lol trust me Cedar and Charles is not a bad area... I just happen to live in the building on the corner, and over the years the city  has cleaned up the area a lot.  I am born and raised in TORONTO ( REGENT PARK) and trust me it's not even comparable lol.
Comment: So much of this video is around the corner from my place lmao
Comment: I used to live on Cameron St. in downtown Kitchener. The whole tri-city area is changing quite rapidly over the past few years.

You should visit Hamilton. It is somewhere between KW and Toronto in terms of density and "big city" qualities, and is also changing and gentrifying very rapidly these days. It is quite the gritty place at times, but there are also many unique and lively neighborhoods. Ottawa st north, James st north, and Lock st south are all quintessential Hamilton neighborhoods worth a visit.
Comment: the sesers building is replaced with winners bc theydid'nt have a online cadalog
Comment: my brother has a gurage near house of freindship that shut down bc of the pendic a lot of pll yell at each other kw has al lot of homeless pll the homeless population has incressed bc of the pendic  coveid seems to be a lot more under control now the downtown kitchener has a lot of highrises being built the lrt took about a decade to build the grand river bus station is not being used anymore at all
Comment: Born and raised here.. 2020 on it went down hill rapidly..
Comment: Great video 💕👏
Comment: I’m surprised you actually said “the CF malls”. I don’t think I’ve heard anyone call them that. I just call them by their original names, no CF...
Comment: I still live here, glad you enjoyed your visit!
Comment: There are people nodding out all around her in that downtown square. Run to Waterloo
Comment: Waterloo is a lot better.
Comment: Descendants closed down, the covid took its toll on them I guess
Comment: i know this video is not current but to answer your question depends on what you are comparing to.Downtown Toronto is crazy expensive while other areas are not as bad while still being expensive, I currently pay 1400$ for 1 bedroom appartment in Kitchener on recidencial area.Hope that helps someone.
I do know in newwer buildings its higher . Also another thing to consider is having a car is a huge plus since i dont think public transit is that good specially on winter months
Comment: You passed into Waterloo just after you passed the Grand River Hospital.
Comment: Next time visit Crafty Ramen! Its just down the road from the train station. You probably even walked by it without realizing
Comment: First tip of enjoying kitchener: Get outta downtown! 😂😂😂😂

but in all seriousness, nice video!
Comment: I am 16 turning 17 and I have been here all my life it is a shit hole I don't like it here and I want to leave The schools are bad  and I have been to 14 different schools in my time in Kitchener the people like to think they're nice but it is very lackluster the city needs some big change in it. We need more sense of community and less stopping on other people's ideas. It feels like everyone here has zero ambition for a better way of life.
Comment: Being a guy who walks through all of the first few minutes of the video every day; its wild to me that 4 minutes from my front door, 20k people are watching someone experience this from around the world.

Life is a trip.
Comment: Rent is cheaper? Bahahaha
